reflection.md, before:

# Reflection

Student Name:  name
Sudent Email:  email

## Instructions

Reflection is a key activity of learning. It helps you build a strong metacognition, or "understanding of your own learning." A good learner not only "knows what they know", but they "know what they don't know", too. Learning to reflect takes practice, but if your goal is to become a self-directed learner where you can teach yourself things, reflection is imperative.

- Now that you've completed the assignment, share your throughts. What did you learn? What confuses you? Where did you struggle? Where might you need more practice?
- A good reflection is: **specific as possible**,  **uses the terminology of the problem domain** (what was learned in class / through readings), and **is actionable** (you can pursue next steps, or be aided in the pursuit). That last part is what will make you a self-directed learner.
- Flex your recall muscles. You might have to review class notes / assigned readings to write your reflection and get the terminology correct.
- Your reflection is for **you**. Yes I make you write them and I read them, but you are merely practicing to become a better self-directed learner. If you read your reflection 1 week later, does what you wrote advance your learning?

Examples:

- **Poor Reflection:**  "I don't understand loops."   
**Better Reflection:** "I don't undersand how the while loop exits."   
**Best Reflection:** "I struggle writing the proper exit conditions on a while loop." It's actionable: You can practice this, google it, ask Chat GPT to explain it, etc. 
-  **Poor Reflection** "I learned loops."   
**Better Reflection** "I learned how to write while loops and their difference from for loops."   
**Best Reflection** "I learned when to use while vs for loops. While loops are for sentiel-controlled values (waiting for a condition to occur), vs for loops are for iterating over collections of fixed values."

`--- Reflection Below This Line ---`

Commit message:

Add pandas helper functions and Streamlit integration for data loading and display

reflection.md, after:

Student Name:  Gianluca Zurlo
Sudent Email:  gzurlo@syr.edu

## Instructions

Reflection is a key activity of learning. It helps you build a strong metacognition, or "understanding of your own learning." A good learner not only "knows what they know", but they "know what they don't know", too. Learning to reflect takes practice, but if your goal is to become a self-directed learner where you can teach yourself things, reflection is imperative.

- Now that you've completed the assignment, share your throughts. What did you learn? What confuses you? Where did you struggle? Where might you need more practice?
- A good reflection is: **specific as possible**,  **uses the terminology of the problem domain** (what was learned in class / through readings), and **is actionable** (you can pursue next steps, or be aided in the pursuit). That last part is what will make you a self-directed learner.
- Flex your recall muscles. You might have to review class notes / assigned readings to write your reflection and get the terminology correct.
- Your reflection is for **you**. Yes I make you write them and I read them, but you are merely practicing to become a better self-directed learner. If you read your reflection 1 week later, does what you wrote advance your learning?

Examples:

- **Poor Reflection:**  "I don't understand loops."   
**Better Reflection:** "I don't undersand how the while loop exits."   
**Best Reflection:** "I struggle writing the proper exit conditions on a while loop." It's actionable: You can practice this, google it, ask Chat GPT to explain it, etc. 
-  **Poor Reflection** "I learned loops."   
**Better Reflection** "I learned how to write while loops and their difference from for loops."   
**Best Reflection** "I learned when to use while vs for loops. While loops are for sentiel-controlled values (waiting for a condition to occur), vs for loops are for iterating over collections of fixed values."

--- Reflection Below This Line ---
In this assignment, I learned how to integrate Streamlit with Pandas to create an interactive data exploration tool. Implementing file handling and dataframe manipulation in pandaslib.py helped reinforce my understanding of data processing, particularly using get_columns_of_type() and get_unique_values(). One challenge I faced was handling different file formats dynamically and ensuring the correct parsing of CSV, JSON, and XLSX files. I also found the Streamlit UI state management to be an area where I need more practice, particularly in handling user interactions like filtering and column selection efficiently. Moving forward, I would like to explore more advanced Streamlit components for better UI responsiveness and performance optimization.
